fuck the world

Hello world

In a year where COVID-19 has disrupted almost every area of life, how have you overcome a challenge posed by the pandemic and what do you see as its lasting impacts?
(300 words)


COVID-19 pandemic has reimagined how we live, study, and work. It has led to massive shift towards ‘Work From Home (WFH)’ and tele-conferencing / online meetings.  Due to the nature of daily lives during this pandemic, work and entertainment can essentially be done from the same place, or even concurrently. While this new nature of working brings about many benefits, including increased productivity, lower costs and more individual flexibility, it also further blurs the line between work and life. This leads to a question of how do we separate our personal lives from our work and vice versa. 

As a student, this online nature of studying and working is relatively new. Today, we can tune in to live lectures while lying on the bed, in a position where we usually watch our Netflix shows. The lack of physical separation between work and personal lives leads to the need to create a mental separation between ‘home life’ and ‘work life’, to ensure that we can have replenishing time in our ‘home life’ and productive time in our ‘work life’. 

I overcome this challenge by enforcing a strict micro-scheduling habit upon myself. As we are unable to block-out large chunks of the day to physically study in school, I block out smaller parts of the day to study, work on applications, exercise, and even Netflix. This allows maximisation of the smaller blocks of time, both working and non-working. I can have 30 minutes of exercise slipped in between 2 hours block of work and I believe led me to be more recharged for the second working block, and thus increasing productivity. It also leads to a healthier personal life as I maximise the time to create the reenergising value.

I believe this new habit allows me to better manage my time in the future, maximising my output while ensuring that my personal life does not suffer.

